# Improved-Hyperparameter-Optimization-
Code repository for the article "Improved Hyperparameter Optimization and Multi-Dimensional Sampling". The data needed for all scripts to run can be found
here https://sid.erda.dk/sharelink/gDtCoRDXC6, from now on called the erda directory.

### Generic function figure 2

The program "Figure_generic" generates Figure 2 from the manuscript, 
which compares three strategies for a generic function benchmark problem. 
Moreover, it generates data input into Table I, Table IV, and subsection 
IIIA of the manuscript. It does so based on files of the form 
"Hyperuniform_...," "Random_...," "Numbers_...," and "Scores_..."  that 
contain detailed results of this test for various strategies and numbers of 
dimensions and sampled points in a pickled format.

The latter files were generated by the programs "Generic_generate_results," 
"Generic_generate_results_hyper," "Generic_generate_results_quasi," and 
"Generic_generate_results_random." 

Files of the form "Data_trials_..." contain parameters of the function used in 
different trials (generated using the "Generic_generate_results" program). 
These files were used to verify each strategy on the same set of generic functions.


### LGBM analysis figure 3

The LGBM analysis is made by first using kdd12_batch_maker.py to generate
batches of cleaned combined data. These have different sizes. From here the 
Lightgbm_analysis_mpi.py file is run, preferably on a large cluster, using the
pipings to control what dimensions and resolutions to run and how many workers
to use. The results from this analysis are then finally compressed down to the 
data needed for the plots with Results_Compression.py. Here the results coming from some grids have nonuniform
size and taking the mean and standard deviation is therefore not possible with 
array operations. 


#### Data for LGBM analysis
The data is available here https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/kddcup2012-track1/data.
The files needed are rec_log_train.txt and user_profile.txt 

The batches made from the KDD12 dataset with varying sizes and cleaned data for the LGBM analysis are found on the erda directory in the 'Batches' sub directory
The raw results are found in the 'LGBM/All_data' subdirectory. With the compressed results in the Figure_LGBM directory here.


### CNN analysis figure 4
For the CNN analysis the 'CNN_analysis.py' makes the files hosted on erda in the CNN subdirectory. These files are 
used by the program "Figure_CNN" to generate Figure 4 from the manuscript. It compares three strategies for a CNN benchmark problem. Moreover, it generates data input into Table III and subsection IIIC of the manuscript.